# Collecting data from r/Feminism: A Reddit webscraper for research in the Digital Humanities

This repository contains a group project we created for research in the field of Digital Humanities. We wanted to explore the different ways in which scholars of the field could actually collect various forms of data for their research purposes. In order to do so, we came up with a brief project which helps us to better understand the process of data collection. Moreover, this project gave us the opportunity to create a guide for further research. 

We decided to explore the social media platform Reddit. On here we focused on a topic analyzation of r/Feminism. In order to gain our data we needed to make our own scraper. The guide in this repository contains the step-by-step process of how we programmed the scraper. For this we used PRAW: Python Reddit Api Wrapper. This is a great and user-friendly way to scrape data from Reddit. We are aware that there are multiple ways of scraping Reddit. For example, using the Pushshift Api. These are also great tools. However, we found that using PRAW is more consistent in the data gathering and the servers it connects to. 

The workbook in this repository allows researchers to make their own Reddit scraper. It takes you through the whole process again but this time with the subreddit of your own choosing. This file contains various example assignments you can do. Still, it also allows you to use it for your own desire. The code in the guide is reusable and with a view adjustments suitable for many projects. 

The report in this repository contains the foundations of our own research project which guided us for the data collection. In addition, it contains the documentation of the file in which we created our own scraper in the form of a tutorial. The workbook which serves as active learning exercise is also explained more in-depth in the report. In order to explore our own r/Feminism dataset we created some visualizations on flourish. These visualizations are described in our report but are also individually visible in this repository. Moreover, the visualizations serve as a way in which we wanted to give a brief example of the ways in which datasets from Reddit could be used. Finally, this repository contains a Data Management Plan (DMP). In here we elaborated on the ways in which our dataset is considered FAIR. Moreover, we justify our methods, tools and research more in-depth. 
